---
title: On advertising performance evaluation with Data Science in mind
authors:
- Hugo Authors
date: '2020-04-20'
slug: ads
categories: []
tags: []
hero: /images/hero-22.jpg
excerpt: Every day, companies spend billions on advertising campaigns, while ordinary people trying to avoid this ads any possible way. We’ll reveal some ideas for evaluating effectiveness.
---


## Preface

Imagine that you are the CEO of the company, who clearly see that competitors are actively expanding in a market nevertheless tough times (and when was it different?). Your company produces a handy product or service. At the next meeting, together with the marketing and advertising department, you decided to launch an advertising company aimed to increase sales and brand awareness at the same time.

You have chosen specific types of advertising, deciding to go for both offline and online. Marketers propose to expand the range of advertising channels and include not only traditional ads but also promoting on social networks, collaborating with influencers, etc.

> "It's hard to find me, easy to lose and impossible to forget" - once a popular status in social networks

After all, marketers got the deal done with several suppliers, celebrities on Instagram, so in general, everyone is furiously waiting for the whole world to know what a fantastic company really is.

###### Day 1
The sales department works as if nothing had happened.

###### Day 7
The sales department looks pretty tired in the evening; their phones were busy all day.

###### Day 20
Happy marketers report a 15% increase for CTR on the site; conversions are creeping up too. <abbr title = "Keyword!"> It seems </abbr> that everything worked as it should!

Of course, this is all primitive and presented like in a non-real world, but any leader would like to see the result just like that. The only question that interests me is, is this all thanks to advertising? What if advertising synergy was smaller than the simple random effect? How can an analyst help us here?


## What are our options?

* Just leave it as it is 
* Carry out in-depth analysis from the stage of selecting the placement of an ad to evaluating the real performance and predicting future spendings

For example, before being placed on social networks, we can dive into that platform and its inhabitants and draw up a portrait of a typical user, see their preferences, determine the number of real people who actively use this platform, etc. There were cases when 40% of users were either fake or did not use a specific social media for a long time, which of course, any social network prefers to keep silent.

To determine the real effect of an advertising campaign, we should simulate the post effect with or without ads. What happened to your company if you decided not to invest in advertising. What is the impact of this particular advertising campaign and is that growth happened because of advertising? And finally, take a look at ads like this is an optimization problem where we could improve the budget allocation and save money for the company before investing in weak channels. 


I shared some of the approaches that I'm working with and hope that these steps could help you to look on the problem from a different perspective.


{{<subscribe email = "your@email.com">}}