---
title: Houston, we have a problems, or when you should pay attention to the quality of analytical data
authors:
- Hugo Authors
date: '2020-04-18'
slug: huston
categories: []
tags: []
hero: /images/hero-20.jpg
excerpt: Suppose your company has a long history and you want to be among the high-tech in your field.
---

This is an automated Google Translation from my russian version of website. Please visit later for better experience.

## Preface

Suppose your company has a long history and you, or say our mocked hero Ivan Petrovich, is a vivid example of a modern leader who has already heard words such as Big Data, algorithms or artificial intelligence in the media.

The company works like a clock, although of course there are moments of turbulence. The employees are all reliable, intelligent. But for some reason, the growth is either not big enough, or it is already gone. Weekly meetings are excellent, reports are being written, but you feel that 80% of employees have lost the initiative, and 20% have not yet been found.

> Are you already settled? - No. Still working.

So, here we will talk only about analytical reports. What you should pay attention to first of all (based on real events)

* In reports or presentations, last year’s dates are accidentally “forgotten” instead of current
* To the question "Why?" or "What is the connection with this?" you do not get a clear answer
* The text is half, and sometimes more, identical to the previous report
* Data is the opposite of visualization
* Sales forecasts are based on fortune telling on a magic ball and reading news
* No one asks questions. Attendees are either on the phone or half asleep waiting for the meeting to end


## What are our options?

* Understand and forgive (leave everything as it is)
* Conduct an audit of the analytics department (methods, tools, technical level of staff)

Interested in? Contact us!


{{<subscribe email = "your@email.com">}}